# CSC120-FinalProject

## Deliverables:
 - Your final codebase
 - Your revised annotated architecture diagram
 - Design justification (including a brief discussion of at least one alternative you considered)
 - A map of your game's layout (if applicable)
 - `cheatsheet.md`
 - Completed `rubric.md`
  
## Additional Reflection Questions
 - What was your **overall approach** to tackling this project?
 - What **new thing(s)** did you learn / figure out in completing this project?
 - Is there anything that you wish you had **implemented differently**?
 - If you had **unlimited time**, what additional features would you implement?
 - What was the most helpful **piece of feedback** you received while working on your project? Who gave it to you?
 - If you could go back in time and give your past self some **advice** about this project, what hints would you give?
 - _If you worked with a team:_ please comment on how your **team dynamics** influenced your experience working on this project.

DESIGN JUSTIFICATION:
The reason for my design was that I wanted every directional move to lead to to a new location to keep the game entertaining,similar, to the Jumanji board game. I also wanted to be able to incorporate different riddles into certain locations to mirror the riddle cards in Jumanji and how they are specific to different obstacles. For both of theses reasons, I decide to go with a 2D array where each grid would be a different location with its own attributes (obstacles, items, messages, riddles, etc). I also decide that  messages and riddles would work better as files that could be read from in the main method to cut down on all the typed text that I already had in my code. One alternative design I considered was having directional moves randomized by a random number generator similar to to the randomness of dice rolls in the actual board game. However, I decide against this because it meant that the order of the riddles would be different every time and this would have made it more difficult to achieve the restricted paths component of the project. I also felt like this took away from player autonomy and because the game had no visuals, it would have put the player at more of a disadvantage when it came to figuring out where they were on the map.

ADDITIONAL REFLECTION:
My approach to completing this project was to pick out the most enjoyable parts of the Jumanji board game and convert them so they worked and made sense in a a text based game. I really enjoyed the riddles so I knew I had to have that aspect and I used locations form the original board game to give the game the same nostalgic feel. Those were the two most important factors to me so using them as my main priorities helped me build the game around some form of structure. I first starting on my map and ensuring the player could move around because I felt that this served as the basis of the game. I then slowly started adding items and obstacles and always made sure to test parts before adding on to them. One new thing I learned was how a file reader works in java. Using files for all my riddles and messages made it much easier to input and change them as I didn't have to search for them in my actual code. While I didn't absolutely need the file reading aspect for this game to work, it was cool to use a new tool. I also learned a lot about debugging as both my jumanjiMmap class and gameLoop class got to a point where they were so long and complex that it was super hard to pinpoint issues when I ran to them. This often meant that I had to comment out large portions of my code and create lots of print statements to find errors. Something I definitely wish I had implemented differently was my gameLoop. Near the very end of the programming process, I learned about switch statements and that definitely could've simplified all my nested if else statements which would've have made debugging a whole lot easier. If I had additional time, I would have liked to implement a time feature for the riddles. In Jumanji, there's an hourglass that counts down the time you have to answer a riddle and make a move which makes the game even more fun to play and it would've have definitely been really cool to have that component in my game. I also would have loved to implement graphics if I had time to make the game more visually enticing but I also think there's appeal in the mystery of not being able to see your actual location in a game. The most helpful piece of feedback I recieved was from Emily (not sure of her last name) and it was to start small. I had originally started with trying to get my player to move around a 5x5 grid map with 25 locations but she suggested that I start with a 2x2 and work from there. This made it much easier to debug my basic commands. If I could go back in time and give my past self advice, I would have told myself to not get discouraged by bugs I couldn't figure out or parts of the game I wasn't sure how to implement. I was terrified by the idea of using a graph for my map but I could've benefitted from being reminded to use what I know, like a 2D array.